README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://ci.appveyor.com/project/jonathanlermitage/manon"><img src="https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/3tfcq04yte3ff1iq?svg=true"/></a>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/jonathanlermitage/manon"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg?branch=spring5-light"/></a>
    <a href="http://cirrus-ci.com/github/jonathanlermitage/manon/spring5-light"><img src="https://api.cirrus-ci.com/github/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg?branch=spring5-light"/></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/blob/master/LICENSE.txt"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=JLermitage"><img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/JLermitage.svg?style=social" alt="follow on Twitter"></a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=nanon%3Amanon-light"><img src="https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=nanon%3Amanon-light&metric=alert_status"/></a>
    <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/jonathanlermitage/manon/branch/spring5-light"><img src="https://codecov.io/gh/jonathanlermitage/manon/branch/spring5-light/graph/badge.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/jonathanlermitage/manon/alerts/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18"/></a>
    <a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/jonathanlermitage/manon/context:java"><img src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/java/g/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18"/></a>
</p>

1. [Project](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#project)  
2. [Author](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#author)
3. [Branches](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#branches)
4. [Compilation and test](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#compilation-and-test)
5. [License](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#license)

## Project

Some experimentation with Spring Boot 2, JDK8+, NoSQL, etc. It demonstrates usage of:

* **Maven** and **Gradle** build tools
* **Spring Boot 2** + Spring Framework 5 and migration from Spring Boot 1 + Spring Framework 4
* built with JDK8 and newer JDKs on Travis CI
* Spring Web, **REST** API
* Spring **Security**, to authenticate users via auth_basic, and fetch authentication data from MongoDB instead of default SQL database 
* Spring Data to serve data from a **MongoDB** database
* Spring **Batch** to schedule and manage some tasks
* Spring **Cache** via Redis for application, and prefer an embedded cache provider during tests
* **integration tests** and (some) unit-test via **TestNG**, because TestNG is so much superior to JUnit4/5... (better keywords, dataproviders, old/mature and very stable API, easily configurable, test suites)
* tests work with an **embedded MongoDB** instance (for data) and HSQLDB (for Spring Batch internals only), that means you don't have to install any database to test project
* integration with some free (for open-source) services like **[AppVeyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/jonathanlermitage/manon)** (Windows CI), **[Travis](https://travis-ci.org/jonathanlermitage/manon)** (Linux and MacOS CI), **[Cirrus](https://cirrus-ci.com)** (CI), **[CodeCov](https://codecov.io/gh/jonathanlermitage/manon)** (code coverage), **[SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=nanon:manon)** (code quality), **[LGTM](https://lgtm.com/)** (code quality) 
* Maven and Gradle wrappers, and a `do.cmd` script that helps you to launch some usefull commands
* code coverage thanks to **JaCoCo** Maven and Gradle plugin
* some **AOP** to capture performance of API endpoints
* Spring **Actuator** web endpoints configured
* **Swagger UI** to provide documentation about REST API endpoints
* **Docker** builds without Docker daemon thanks to **[Jib](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib)**. **Docker Compose** support. Linux base image is [Distroless](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless)

For fun and to show some skills :cat:

## Author

Jonathan Lermitage (<jonathan.lermitage@gmail.com>)  
Linkedin profile: [jonathan-lermitage-092711142](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathan-lermitage-092711142/)

## Branches

* active
  * **[spring5-light](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-light)**: like [spring5](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5), JDK8+ (JDK11 supported), Docker Compose, without Redis Cache
* archived
  * [spring5](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5): based on Spring Framework 5, **Spring Boot 2** and JDK8/9, use Spring Web (REST API), Security, Data (regular and embedded MongoDB), Batch, Cache (Redis), AOP, Actuator, Swagger UI
  * [spring5-light-docker-jib](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-light-docker-jib): Docker build thanks to Jib. See [DEPLOY.md](DEPLOY.md) to package and run application. See commit [de7335b](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/de7335b2be850ca6a7b683bdbe2b86adc990b594)
  * [spring5-light-batch](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-light-batch): Spring Batch support. See commit [c0e3422](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/c0e3422fcce5522c3320dd1a2eed65950e321621)
  * [spring5-embedmongo](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-embedmongo): use **embedded MongoDB** during tests. See commits [37e1be5](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/37e1be5f01c3ffa6ecf4d9c3e558b4ffb297227f) and [161d321](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/161d3214ab72e76a2f041bbe8914077137513fb7)
    * [spring5-light-mongo4.0.x](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-light-mongo4.0.x): make embedded MongoDB work with version from 3.6 to 4.0. See commit [a75a917](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/a75a9178211233c24a6ac7001559fdfdf3413cd2)
  * [spring5-swagger](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-swagger): enable **Swagger UI**. Run application and check `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html`, authenticate with `ROOT` / `woot`. See commit [~~429ae53~~](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/429ae53bc5211d8d97e8ccca20a4b183f207c6ee) [834852c](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/834852cd5ce8bbb869a189aecdd90097c9168152)
  * [spring5-redis](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-redis): enable **Redis cache**, and prefer embedded cache during tests. See commits [a911f6a](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/a911f6a08ce67b3b302f4ea3d17a73e8a0dcd6e6), [7e26822](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/7e268222a745e5bbb88129d99b91379bafac7f58) and [ae6e0e6](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/ae6e0e69ac37dbe44b51f449600943e09b9b149b) 
  * [spring5-mvn-to-gradle](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-mvn-to-gradle): migration from **Maven to Gradle**. Stable and functional, but still needs some improvements
  * [spring4](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring4): previous active branch, based on Spring Framework 4, Spring Boot and JDK8
  * [spring4-redis-cache](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring4-redis-cache): enable caching based on **Redis** server. See commit [0f1eff7](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/0f1eff768e73a69e07016e153b825a131146a63a)
* other branches may appear and disappear quickly, depending on experimentation results and motivation ;-)

## Compilation and test
  
You can use the `do.cmd` (Windows) or `do.sh` (Unix shell) script:  
```
do help      show this help message
do t         test without code coverage (with embedded MongoDB)
do tc        test with code coverage (with embedded MongoDB)
do sc        compute and upload Sonar analysis to SonarCloud, needs two env vars:
             - TK1_MANON_SONAR_ORGA   SonarCloud organization, e.g. jonathanlermitage-github
             - TK1_MANON_SONAR_LOGIN  SonarCloud authentication token
do tsc       similar to "do tc" then "do sc"
do b         build without testing
do c         clean
do p         package application to manon.jar
do rd        package and run application with dev profile 
do w 3.5.2   set or upgrade Maven wrapper to 3.5.2
do cv        check plugins and dependencies versions
do uv        update plugins and dependencies versions
do dt        show dependencies tree
do rmi       stop Docker application, then remove its containers and images
do cdi       clean up dangling Docker images
do jib       build Docker image to a Docker daemon
do jibtar    build and save Docker image to a tarball 
```

## License

MIT License. In other words, you can do what you want: this project is entirely OpenSource, Free and Gratis.

![banner](misc/banner.png)

Commit message:

(doc) use "./do.sh" instead of "do" for Linux, minor documentation fixes

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://ci.appveyor.com/project/jonathanlermitage/manon"><img src="https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/3tfcq04yte3ff1iq?svg=true"/></a>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/jonathanlermitage/manon"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg?branch=spring5-light"/></a>
    <a href="http://cirrus-ci.com/github/jonathanlermitage/manon/spring5-light"><img src="https://api.cirrus-ci.com/github/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg?branch=spring5-light"/></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/blob/master/LICENSE.txt"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=JLermitage"><img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/JLermitage.svg?style=social" alt="follow on Twitter"></a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=nanon%3Amanon-light"><img src="https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=nanon%3Amanon-light&metric=alert_status"/></a>
    <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/jonathanlermitage/manon/branch/spring5-light"><img src="https://codecov.io/gh/jonathanlermitage/manon/branch/spring5-light/graph/badge.svg"/></a>
    <a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/jonathanlermitage/manon/alerts/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18"/></a>
    <a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/jonathanlermitage/manon/context:java"><img src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/java/g/jonathanlermitage/manon.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18"/></a>
</p>

1. [Project](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#project)  
2. [Author](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#author)
3. [Branches](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#branches)
4. [Compilation and test](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#compilation-and-test)
5. [License](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon#license)

## Project

Some experimentation with Spring Boot 2, JDK8+, NoSQL, etc. It demonstrates usage of:

* **Maven** and **Gradle** build tools
* **Spring Boot 2** + Spring Framework 5 and migration from Spring Boot 1 + Spring Framework 4
* built with JDK8 and newer JDKs on Travis CI
* Spring Web, **REST** API
* Spring **Security**, to authenticate users via auth_basic, and fetch authentication data from MongoDB instead of default SQL database 
* Spring Data to serve data from a **MongoDB** database
* Spring **Batch** to schedule and manage some tasks
* Spring **Cache** via Redis for application, and prefer an embedded cache provider during tests
* **integration tests** and (some) unit-test via **TestNG**, because TestNG is so much superior to JUnit4/5... (better keywords, dataproviders, old/mature and very stable API, easily configurable, test suites)
* tests work with an **embedded MongoDB** instance (for data) and HSQLDB (for Spring Batch internals only), that means you don't have to install any database to test project
* integration with some free (for open-source) services like **[AppVeyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/jonathanlermitage/manon)** (Windows CI), **[Travis](https://travis-ci.org/jonathanlermitage/manon)** (Linux and MacOS CI), **[Cirrus](https://cirrus-ci.com)** (CI), **[CodeCov](https://codecov.io/gh/jonathanlermitage/manon)** (code coverage), **[SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=nanon:manon)** (code quality), **[LGTM](https://lgtm.com/)** (code quality) 
* Maven and Gradle wrappers, and a `do.cmd` script that helps you to launch some usefull commands
* code coverage thanks to **JaCoCo** Maven and Gradle plugin
* some **AOP** to capture performance of API endpoints
* Spring **Actuator** web endpoints configured
* **Swagger UI** to provide documentation about REST API endpoints
* **Docker** builds without Docker daemon thanks to **[Jib](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/jib)**. **Docker Compose** support. Linux base image is [Distroless](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless)

For fun and to show some skills :cat:

## Author

Jonathan Lermitage (<jonathan.lermitage@gmail.com>)  
Linkedin profile: [jonathan-lermitage-092711142](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathan-lermitage-092711142/)

## Branches

* active
  * **[spring5-light](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-light)**: like [spring5](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5), JDK8+ (JDK11 supported), Docker Compose, without Redis Cache
* archived
  * [spring5](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5): based on Spring Framework 5, **Spring Boot 2** and JDK8/9, use Spring Web (REST API), Security, Data (regular and embedded MongoDB), Batch, Cache (Redis), AOP, Actuator, Swagger UI
  * [spring5-light-docker-jib](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-light-docker-jib): Docker build thanks to Jib. See [DEPLOY.md](DEPLOY.md) to package and run application. See commit [de7335b](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/de7335b2be850ca6a7b683bdbe2b86adc990b594)
  * [spring5-light-batch](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-light-batch): Spring Batch support. See commit [c0e3422](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/c0e3422fcce5522c3320dd1a2eed65950e321621)
  * [spring5-embedmongo](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-embedmongo): use **embedded MongoDB** during tests. See commits [37e1be5](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/37e1be5f01c3ffa6ecf4d9c3e558b4ffb297227f) and [161d321](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/161d3214ab72e76a2f041bbe8914077137513fb7)
    * [spring5-light-mongo4.0.x](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-light-mongo4.0.x): make embedded MongoDB work with version from 3.6 to 4.0. See commit [a75a917](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/a75a9178211233c24a6ac7001559fdfdf3413cd2)
  * [spring5-swagger](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-swagger): enable **Swagger UI**. Run application and check `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html`, authenticate with `ROOT` / `woot`. See commit [~~429ae53~~](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/429ae53bc5211d8d97e8ccca20a4b183f207c6ee) [834852c](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/834852cd5ce8bbb869a189aecdd90097c9168152)
  * [spring5-redis](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-redis): enable **Redis cache**, and prefer embedded cache during tests. See commits [a911f6a](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/a911f6a08ce67b3b302f4ea3d17a73e8a0dcd6e6), [7e26822](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/7e268222a745e5bbb88129d99b91379bafac7f58) and [ae6e0e6](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/ae6e0e69ac37dbe44b51f449600943e09b9b149b) 
  * [spring5-mvn-to-gradle](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring5-mvn-to-gradle): migration from **Maven to Gradle**. Stable and functional, but still needs some improvements
  * [spring4](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring4): previous active branch, based on Spring Framework 4, Spring Boot and JDK8
  * [spring4-redis-cache](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/tree/spring4-redis-cache): enable caching based on **Redis** server. See commit [0f1eff7](https://github.com/jonathanlermitage/manon/commit/0f1eff768e73a69e07016e153b825a131146a63a)
* other branches may appear and disappear quickly, depending on experimentation results and motivation ;-)

## Compilation and test
  
You can use the `do.cmd` (Windows) or `./do.sh` (Linux Bash) script:  
```
do help      show this help message
do t         test without code coverage (with embedded MongoDB)
do tc        test with code coverage (with embedded MongoDB)
do sc        compute and upload Sonar analysis to SonarCloud, needs two env vars:
             - TK1_MANON_SONAR_ORGA   SonarCloud organization, e.g. jonathanlermitage-github
             - TK1_MANON_SONAR_LOGIN  SonarCloud authentication token
do tsc       similar to "do tc" then "do sc"
do b         build without testing
do c         clean
do p         package application to manon.jar
do rd        package and run application with dev profile 
do w 3.5.2   set or upgrade Maven wrapper to 3.5.2
do cv        check plugins and dependencies versions
do uv        update plugins and dependencies versions
do dt        show dependencies tree
do rmi       stop Docker application, then remove its containers and images
do cdi       clean up dangling Docker images
do docker    build Docker image with Dockerfile to a Docker daemon
do jib       build Docker image with Jib to a Docker daemon
do jibtar    build and save Docker image with Jib to a tarball
```

Nota: `./do.sh` can chain parameters, e.g.: `./do.sh cdi rmi w 3.6.0 c tc docker`.

## License

MIT License. In other words, you can do what you want: this project is entirely OpenSource, Free and Gratis.

![banner](misc/banner.png)
